
# Quaynor Flutter bindings

Here are three folders:

## `rust/`

This dir contains the rust code which uses [flutter_rust_bridge](https://github.com/fzyzcjy/flutter_rust_bridge) macros to do code-generation.

The build.rs file deals with code generation, outputting both flutter and dart code.
For this reason it expects `flutter` to be on the path.
The `QUAYNOR_SKIP_CODEGEN` environment variable can be used to skip codegen if needed.

Whenever the `rust` crate is built, it overwrites the code-generated files in the repo.

## `quaynor/`

This Flutter plugin contains the generated Dart code for binding into the Rust crate (in `lib/src/rust/`).

It also contains high-level Dart wrapper classes (Chat, Tool, TokenStream) for an ergonomic API.

This package includes unit tests to verify the bindings work correctly and doc tests to check if the code in the docs is correct.
The units can be run using `flutter test`, but dart needs to be able to find the dynamic library of quaynor to run them. I usually do something like this:

**On Linux**:
```rust
LD_LIBRARY_PATH=../../target/debug/ flutter test test/quaynor_test.dart
```
**On Mac**:
It is a bit more difficult, because for some reason, `flutter_rust_bridge` does not respect the `DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH` which is made for this and rather opts for something on the path:
```
*.framework/library_name
```
So temporary solution is to create a symlink with:
```bash
cd flutter/rust
cargo build
cd ../quaynor
mkdir -p quaynor_flutter.framework
ln -sf ../../target/debug/libquaynor_flutter.dylib quaynor_flutter.framework/quaynor_flutter
flutter test test/quaynor_test.dart
```
(Opt for the release you want, it can be debug or something else.)

The doc tests must first be generated by parsing the doc markdown, so which is done through the script `tool/doctest.dart`.

**On Linux**
```rust
dart run tool/doctest.dart ../../../docs/markdown/flutter --generate-only
LD_LIBRARY_PATH=../../target/debug/ flutter test test/doctest_generated_test.dart
```

**On Mac**
```bash
cd flutter/rust
cargo build
cd ../quaynor
mkdir -p quaynor_flutter.framework
ln -sf ../../target/debug/libquaynor_flutter.dylib quaynor_flutter.framework/quaynor_flutter
dart run tool/doctest.dart ../../../docs/markdown/flutter --generate-only
flutter test test/doctest_generated_test.dart
```


The package also contains platform-specific build scripts for including pre-built binary artifacts (so end-users don't need Rust and llama.cpp build dependencies).

### Binary Resolution

The build scripts (CMakeLists.txt, Podspec, gradle/ktl files) resolve binaries using these strategies (in order):

1. check the environment variable `QUAYNOR_FLUTTER_LIB_PATH`
2. check for libquaynor_flutter.so in a parent cargo target dir (`../../../target/release/libquaynor_flutter.so`), useful during development
3. figure out the verison number of the flutter package, and download the corresponding dynamic lib from github releases (WIP)

## Building for Android

The nix file `android.nix` sets up a nix devshell, which has all of the required android sdks installed, and the environment variables set up to point in the right places.

You can activate it by running `nix develop '.#android'`.

It is tested and works on x86_64-linux, and the github actions CI environment also tests that building the flutter example application inside this devshell works.
I assume that it will also work on MacOS, with a few tweaks (e.g. setting the correct dynamic library extension, including a few macos "Frameworks" in the build env).
